Running Gradle Builds section in Gradle User Manual (#26936)
gradle/gradle: subprojects/docs/src/docs/userguide/running-builds/introduction/dependency_management_basics.adoc

// Copyright (C) 2023 Gradle, Inc.
//
// Licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.;
// you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
// You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//      https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
// WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.

[[dependency_management_basics]]
= Dependency Management Basics

Gradle has built-in support for *dependency management*.

image::gradle-basic-7.png[]

Dependency management is an automated technique for declaring, resolving, and using functionality required by a project.

Gradle build scripts defines a process to build projects that contain some dependencies.
Dependencies refer to JARs, plugins, libraries, or source code that support building your project.

> The Gradle build system makes it easy to include external binaries or other library modules to your build as dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Gradle build system makes it easy to include external binaries or other libraries to your build as dependencies.
```

Much as `Component` is a keyword in Gradle, so is `Module`. If we can avoid it, I think we should stay away from this word until we present a more formal definition

The dependencies can be located on your machine or in a remote repository, and any transitive dependencies they declare are also automatically included.

== Version Catalog

Version catalogs are a way of centralizing your dependency declarations by creating a `libs.versions.toml` file.

The catalog makes sharing dependencies and version configurations between subprojects simple.
It also allows teams to enforce versions of libraries and plugins in large projects.

The version catalog typically contains four sections:

1. [versions] to declare the version numbers that plugins and libraries will reference.
2. [libraries] to define the libraries used in the build files.
3. [bundles] to define a set of dependencies.
4. [plugins] to define plugins.

[source,gradle/libs.versions.toml]
----
[versions]
testHelperVer = "7.4.1"

[libraries]
gradle-helper = "com.example.gradle:app-helper:10.1.1"
gradle-test-helper = { group = "com.example.gradle", name = "app-test-helper", version.ref = "testHelperVer" }

[plugins]
tutorial-application = { id = "com.tutorial.application" }
----

The file is located in the `gradle` directory so that it can be used by Gradle and IDEs automatically.

> The version catalog should be checked into subversion: `gradle/libs.versions.toml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The version catalog should be checked into source control: `gradle/libs.versions.toml`.
```

Subversion is just one type of source control. Git is the much more popular alternative. We shouldn't need to specify which source control library to use

== Declaring Your Dependencies

To add a dependency to your project, specify a dependency in the dependencies block of your `build.gradle(.kts)` file.

The following `build.gradle.kts` file adds a plugin and two dependencies to the project, using the version catalog above:

[source]
----
plugins {
    alias(libs.tutorial.application)
}

dependencies {
    // Dependency on a remote binary to compile and run the code
    implementation(libs.gradle.helper)

    // Dependency on a remote binary to compile and run the test code
    testImplementation(libs.gradle.test.helper)
}
----

This declares a dependency on version `10.1.1` of the `app-helper` library inside the `com.example.gradle` namespace group:

[source]
----
implementation(libs.gradle.helper)                                                      // Using version catalog

> implementation(group = "com.example.gradle", name = "app-helper", version = "10.1.1")   // Using long format

Reviewer: I very rarely see this long form used in build scripts. The "shorthand" is more like the "normal" notation.

I'd like to move away from recommending the long-form, if possible. 

Do we need to show it here?

implementation("com.example.gradle:app-helper:10.1.1")                                  // Using shorthand
----

Dependencies in Gradle are grouped by *configurations*.

> - The `app-helper` library is added to the `implementation` configuration which is used for compiling and running code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `app-helper` library is added to the `implementation` configuration which is used for compiling and running production code.
```

We generally use `production` to refer to the main thing -- the thing that is not the tests -- the library that actually gets published/shipped

Author: Very helpful, exactly what I was looking for.

- The `gradle-test-helper` library is added to the `testImplementation` configuration which is used for compiling and running _test_ code.

NOTE: There are many more configurations available.

== Viewing Project Dependencies

You can view your dependency tree in the terminal using the `./gradlew :app:dependencies` command:

[source]
----
$ ./gradlew :app:dependencies

> Task :app:dependencies

------------------------------------------------------------
Project ':app'
------------------------------------------------------------

implementation - Implementation dependencies for the 'main' feature. (n)
\--- com.google.guava:guava:32.1.1-jre (n)

testImplementation - Implementation only dependencies for source set 'test'. (n)
\--- org.junit.jupiter:junit-jupiter:5.9.3 (n)

...
----

> Consult the <<dependency_management_terminology .adoc#dependency_management_terminology,Dependency Management chapter>> to learn more.

Reviewer: This link is broken for me

Author: There was an extra space. Nice catch!

The Gradle build system makes it easy to include external binaries or other library modules to your build as dependencies.
The dependencies can be located on your machine or in a remote repository, and any transitive dependencies they declare are also automatically included.

== Viewing Project Dependencies

You can view your dependency tree in the terminal using the `./gradlew :app:dependencies` command:

[source]
----
$ ./gradlew :app:dependencies

> Task :app:dependencies

------------------------------------------------------------
Project ':app'
------------------------------------------------------------

compileClasspath - Compile classpath for source set 'main'.
\--- com.google.guava:guava:32.1.2-jre
     +--- com.google.guava:failureaccess:1.0.1
     +--- com.google.guava:listenablefuture:9999.0-empty-to-avoid-conflict-with-guava
     +--- com.google.code.findbugs:jsr305:3.0.2
     +--- org.checkerframework:checker-qual:3.12.0
     +--- com.google.errorprone:error_prone_annotations:2.11.0
     \--- com.google.j2objc:j2objc-annotations:1.3

...
----

== Configurations

Dependencies in Gradle are grouped into sets called *configurations*.

> TIP: A *configuration* is simply a named set of dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TIP: For the purposes of this introduction, you can think of a *configuration* as simply a named set of dependencies.
```

❗ This is a dramatic oversimplification that definitely needs to be qualified.  People get very confused about advanced usage of configurations (justifiably, as it is confusing).

Author: We decided not to describe configurations in details and just mention `implementation` and `testImplementation` in the Running guide

Given the two classpaths, there must be three options to declare our dependencies:

- *compileOnly* - put the dependency on the *compile classpath* only
- *runtimeOnly* - put the dependency on the *runtime classpath* only
- *implementation* - put the dependency on *both classpaths*

== Declaring Your Dependencies

To add a dependency to your project, specify a dependency in the dependencies block of your module's `build.gradle(.kts)` file.

For example, the following `build.gradle.kts` file for an app module includes three different types of dependencies:

[source]
----
plugins {
    id("com.tutorial.application")
}

dependencies {
    // Dependency on a remote binary
    implementation("com.example.gradle:app-helper:10.1.1")

    // Dependency on a local library module
    implementation(project(":mylibrary"))

    // Dependency on local binaries
    implementation(fileTree(mapOf("dir" to "libs", "include" to listOf("*.jar"))))
}
----

The dependencies in this example use the `implementation` dependency configuration as they are needed on both the compile and runtime classpaths.

=== Remote binary dependency

> This declares a dependency on version `10.1.1` of the `app-magic` library inside the `com.example.gradle` namespace group:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This declares a dependency on version `10.1.1` of the `app-helper` library inside the `com.example.gradle` namespace group:
```
